---
title: "Hierarchical Information Propagation and Aggregation in Disentangled Graph Networks for Logistics Audience Expansion"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-10-21-paper7
excerpt: 'This paper is about Heterogeneous Data Modeling and Prediction.'
date: 2024-10-21
venue: 'CIKM'
paperurl: # 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
citation: 'Li Lin, Xinyao Chen, Kaiwen Xia, Shuai Wang, Desheng Zhang, and Tian
He. 2024. Hierarchical Information Propagation and Aggregation in Disen-
tangled Graph Networks for Audience Expansion. In Proceedings of the 33rd
ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management
(CIKM ’24), October 21–25, 2024, Boise, ID, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA,
8 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3627673.3680062'
---

With the development of the logistics industry, the user base of logistics services has expanded swiftly. This rapid increase in user scale presents significant challenges for logistics business management. A fundamental issue in such scenarios is audience expansion, which aims to find users willing to sign long-term services with logistics companies to foster business growth.  Existing methods in addressing audience expansion mainly assume user modeling is entangled and neglects the inherent community structure among users.  Due to these limitations, the effectiveness of traditional methods in achieving accurate user expansion is often restricted. Our work introduces a novel heterogeneous graph-based model, named Hi-DGN, which concentrates on the Hierarchical information propagation and aggregation in Disentangled Graph Networks for audience expansion. It consists of three main components: (i) the disentangled embedding layer to decouple user representations into different aspects, enabling the extraction of differentiated features; (ii) the hierarchical information propagation module partitions individual nodes into distinct groups and propagates information from group nodes to individual nodes hierarchically to capture diverse granularity representations; and (iii) the aggregation module to fuse all relation-specific embeddings to generate global node embeddings. Extensive experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in various evaluation settings.