---
title: "MulSTE: A Multi-view Spatio-temporal Learning Framework with Heterogeneous Event Fusion for Demand-supply Prediction"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-08-10-paper5
excerpt: 'This paper is about Heterogeneous Data Modeling and Prediction.'
date: 2024-08-10
venue: 'SIGKDD'
paperurl: # 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
citation: 'Li Lin, Zhiqiang Lu, Shuai Wang, Yunhuai Liu, Zhiqing Hong, Haotian Wang, and Shuai Wang. 2024. MulSTE: A Multi-view Spatio-temporal Learning Framework with Heterogeneous Event Fusion for Demand-supply Prediction. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD ’24), August 25–29, 2024, Barcelona, Spain. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 12 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3637528.3672030'
---

Recently, integrated warehouse and distribution logistics systems are widely used in E-commerce industries to adjust to constantly changing customer demands. It makes the prediction of purchase demand and delivery supply capacity a crucial problem to stream- line operations and improve efficiency. The interaction between such demand and supply not only relies on their economic relation- ships but also on consumer psychology caused by daily events, such as epidemics, promotions, and festivals. Although existing studies have made great efforts in the joint prediction of demand and supply considering modeling the demand-supply interactions, they seldom refer to the impacts of diverse events. In this work, we propose MulSTE, a Multi-view Spatio-Temporal learning framework with heterogeneous Event fusion. Firstly, an Event Fusion Representa- tion (EFR) module is designed to fuse the textual, numerical, and categorical heterogeneous information for emergent and periodic events. Secondly, a Multi-graph Adaptive Convolution Recurrent Network (MGACRN) is developed as the spatio-temporal encoder (ST-Encoder) to capture the evolutional features of demand, supply, and events. Thirdly, the Event Gated Demand-Supply Interaction Attention (EGIA) module is designed to model the demand-supply interactions during events. The evaluations are conducted on two real-world datasets collected from JD Logistics and public web- sites. The experimental results show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in various metrics.