---
title: "DIFN: A Dual Intention-aware Network for Repurchase Recommendation with Hierarchical Spatio-temporal Fusion"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-10-21-paper8
excerpt: 'This paper is about Hierarchical Graph Learning.'
date: 2024-10-21
venue: 'CIKM'
paperurl: # 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
author: 'Li Lin, Xin Xu, Hai Wang, Tian He, Desheng Zhang, and Shuai Wang.'
citation: # '**Li Lin**, Xin Xu, Hai Wang, Tian He, Desheng Zhang, and Shuai Wang. 2024.DIFN: A Dual Intention-aware Network for Repurchase Recommendation with Hierarchical Spatio-temporal Fusion. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM ’24), October 21–25, 2024, Boise, ID, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 8 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3627673.3680071'
---

Recommendation systems play a crucial role in both industrial applications and research fields, which target to understand user preferences and intentions to provide personalized services. Compared to conventional recommendations, repurchase recommendations aim to suggest suitable products to users that they used to buy based on their intention evolution. Existing research on product recommendation can mainly be divided into behavior sequence-based methods and graph-based methods. Although these methods represent user interests and preference features effectively, they still fail to model repurchase behaviors because (i) the environment causing repurchase intention change is neglected and (ii) the lack of feedback after purchasing makes it difficult to learn the impacts of diverse behaviors. To comprehensively consider these limitations, we design a Dual Intention-aware Fusion Network framework (DIFN) to understand the effects of environment and after-purchasing feedback on users' intentions. Firstly, a hierarchical graph-based multi-level relational attention module is designed to effectively extract basic user features and spatial features from complex environmental information. Then, we introduce a behavior intention module and a usage intention module for different types of feedback data. Finally, we propose a dual intention fusion network that effectively fuses user basic features with spatial attributes and user intention features with temporal attributes for recommendation. Comprehensive evaluations on real-world datasets show that our method exceeds state-of-the-art baselines, which show an average of 8.2\% improvements in different metrics.