---
title: "ProST: Prompt Future Snapshot on Dynamic Graphs for Spatio-Temporal Prediction"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-7-20-paper10
excerpt: 'This paper is about Heterogeneous Graph Learning.'
date: 2025-7-20
author: 'Kaiwen Xia, Li Lin*, Shuai Wang, Qi Zhang, Shuai Wang, Tian He'
venue: 'SIGKDD'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1145/3690624.3709273'
citation: # 
---

Spatio-temporal prediction focuses on jointly modeling spatial correlations and temporal evolution and has a wide range of applications. Due to the heterogeneity of spatio-temporal data, accurate prediction relies on effectively integrating topological structures and sequential patterns. Although recurrent graph learning methods excel at capturing dynamic graph patterns, explicitly inferring future snapshots from historical dynamic graphs remains a significant challenge. Recently, prompt-based graph learning has shown the potential to improve future snapshot inference by leveraging node or task-specific prompts. However, these methods fail to fully capture edge information resulting in incomplete and less accurate representations of future snapshot structures. To bridge this gap, we propose ProST, a framework that Prompts future snapshots on dynamic graphs for Spatio-Temporal prediction, which leverages dynamic graph pre-training to generate a premise graph containing historical graph information and then employs prompts on the premise graph to infer explicit future snapshots. Specifically, this framework comprises three steps: Firstly, dynamic graph pre-training is performed using multi-granularity evolution graph convolution to obtain the premise graph with both local and global features of dynamic graphs. Secondly, prompt subgraphs are used to prompt node pairs and edge features within the premise graph. The subgraph prompt aggregation mechanism propagates this information to generate future snapshots. Finally, we freeze the parameters of the pre-trained model and update the subgraph prompt parameters using meta-learning to adapt to downstream spatio-temporal prediction tasks. Extensive experiments on real-world datasets validate that ProST achieves state-of-the-art performance.